let's move on to navigation first, workshop we're going
to use bottom navigation. So firstly let's just install
the navigation library. So this installs quite a few
packages. So I'm going to copy this line,
open the terminal and run it. So just to
go through what this is going to install. So
we're going to use react navigation in the world of
react native, you can pretty much use react navigation
or react native navigation. Uh personally I prefer react
navigation because I've used it before. And also that's
the one that's pre built into expo So if you
use extra before you will be familiar with this one
and react navigation. They are a mono repo with
multiple packages just so you wouldn't have to, for
example, if you only use bottom navigation, you
wouldn't also have to insource talk navigators. So it's
just to keep your bundle size small. So this
is why there's so many libraries then we have natural
cognitive screens, which is an um, which is
a library for managing the actual screens. And it's
, it's called built in optimizations to make sure it's
um as optimal as possible on mobile devices. Then
we have react native safe area context. And this
is the library that basically allows you to know what
kind of insects there are on a device. So
for example on an iphone X. You have an
inset at the top and the bottom or most android
phones, you don't have an inset at the bottom
etcetera. And lastly we're also going to add the
bottom tabs, library. So this is the specific
library we need, we need to use to add
bottom tabs to application. Now, if you're building
an android app, there's some additional native code that
you need to add. Not a lot, but
I did say that this might happen. So if
you go to android app source main java mood tracker
and the main activity. So this is the main
entry point for application and copy these lines of code
. So let's go android sauce main java main activity
. And we need to add this just underneath underneath
our existing component name function and we also need to
import this bundle library and add it to the top
. Cool, so for I o s remember on
android android kind of handles all the dependencies automatically on
IOS me to explicitly installed them. So if you
open a terminal, good to see D I R
s and part in store and you actually see that
it's saying what's it's installing. So these are the
libraries which we've just installed that have native dependencies.
So there's usually a pot file um there's usually a
pot file in these libraries repositories that will, that
will list which dependencies they rely on. Now we
go C d back into our main directory and the
last thing, whenever you add anything that has native
dependencies, we will also need to rebuild our app
. So you can do this via X code or
you can or you can do john Eyles. All
right, we have successfully rebuilt the app now is
still the same for android. So again on android
, you can either run yarn android. We can
always do it from Andrew's studio in this case I'm
going to run on android. So one thing to
note is that once you've built native bundle, you
don't actually need to have this process running all the
time in your editor because like the native bundle will
stay the same unless it's changed and we're not going
to be changing any of the native code. So
that's why I can pause this execution on X code
and on android studio and then just run the cli
tool which builds the app once installs it and then
exits. So I'm doing this just to save a
little bit of my computer's memory. Oh, interesting
. So it worked through android studio but not via
terminal. So it could be that it just hadn't
had the time to download the dependencies. Well regardless
let's move on. We have both the apps.
Cool. So we got android and we got eyes
. Cool. So before we do before we do
anything. So this is a plain react native template
. I'm just going to make a couple of super
quick adjustments. So firstly we're not going to be
using tests in this course um maybe in another course
. So I'm going to delete the test directory personally
when I write tests. I prefer to write a
test. Put the test next to the thing that
we're testing anyway. But I digress and your thing
is in tears conflict. Um, there is a
option for skip, live check and currently is set
to false. So I turned this true. So
so I said this is true. So it doesn't
check the Node Node modules because at the moment,
if you run the TSC command on this template and
you'll get a couple of TypeScript errors, which are
due to some of the modules that are installed.
But if you turn this on, it will only
run TSC on the code that you write. And
lastly this is just a preference. But I'm going
to turn brackets facing the truth because I like having
spacing between brackets. All right. That's it.
No preferences.